Hello again you're glorious God.
People in this video we're going to do some nouse look which I found tricky because it always reminds
me about a song about a mouse on the stairs wearing clogs.
But that's not all we're doing we are steering the character or changing where the is looking based
on how the mouse is moving.
Now full disclosure I originally took the code from the god mouse sic example I've tweaked it a bit
some extent a more sense for me but this is not my original code.
However it's going to be great for what we're doing if we're doing mouse look.
We should figure out exactly what needs to happen.
The first is that we need to capture the cursor.
That means we're not going to see the mouse flying around screen.
And here's why.
Here I am moving my character around and all I could see is the mouse must mouse Mercer mouse cursor.
Now obviously it's not actually going to be this red laser pointer effect but it's still very distracting.
So when they capture the cursor.
Second thing is we need to actually read the mouse movement.
This can get a little confusing it certainly confuses me because we need to remember that the mouse
is actually only moving in two axes x and y but the player can move in 3 x y and z.
So although we're measuring two separate axes they're not going to be the same axes for each one.
Next we need to rotate the camera on two axes.
The x and the Y and not the Z relative to the moused movement.
Then we need to release the cursor when we leave the game.
OK.
Well let's start the catcher in the castle unto God.
Actually before I do that a couple of things.
One I realized when all of my animations were backwards for this character and the reason is the characters
face in the wrong way.
That is Ford.
So let's just quickly get my character and rotates on the y axis.
Fantastic.
Now this camera should be behind it but you know what.
I don't actually want the camera to be separate.
I want all player to have a camera as part of them someone put the camera with in the places where I
delete this camera and go into the placing.
Going to add a brand new camera.
Now my snap is on so that's good I want to go that many metres back and rotate by all while on ATC.
There it is and up by 2 meters maybe this the other box looks pretty solid.
Save that and let's see Eleanor Dixon editable children so I can see the camera and preview that yeah
it's pretty good and I I'm going back into the scene and just reverse those crevasses with it before
so this is zero.
This is pi.
This is pi times a point five This is pi times one point five.
Let's see how that works.
Left right forward backward.
Much more like it.
Okay.
Sorry desk.
Just go hide in the desk.
Come see me.
I'm hiding.
Great.
OK.
Step one with me the camera a script so klippel camera new script is going to be called Cameron dot
Judy.
There it is.
But it's not going to be in the character's folder it's got me in scripts.
Also the bit in the scripts camera Judy and it can just be empty.
The very first thing I need to do is hide the mouse.
I'm not going do this on ready.
I'm going to do this on Enter entry so funchal into a tree and a tree is the moment you come into the
scene tree run this function.
Don't worry about ready now.
Ready will happen when all child notes are done.
The reason I'm doing this is we're all going to run an exit tree function and it's going to be a lot
easier way to do it.
Go input.
Dont set mouse mode.
OK so I can set multimode and noun an input dot again and I want mouse mode catch and mouse mode captured.
Means forget what the operating system wanted to do with the mouse do what God wanted to do it's all
going to capture the mouse.
Now important point the mouse cursor is going to vanish and you're not going to able to close the window.
So you should know what the keyboard shortcut is to close this window.
If you want Windows it's ult and F for it from Mac.
I believe it's a command and W and if you're on the next I guess it depends on which distro you're on
but know Linux Mint is OK F4.
If you are not sure what it is you should put in an extra function something like.
If input event is help and make a key like escape.
Run that and release them.
It's fairly recent Elseworlds like this function but this is a tree as me exactly like this with a set
of Malapert captured it's going to be multimode visible Let's see if that works.
Ring game and I can't see the mouse.
The Mouse has gone which means I can't close anything.
So let's alter for a modem.
OK so step 1 make the mouse not work done.
Now let's make them work so we have what's happening with the enter and exit tree.
Now we need to know what's happening on inputs somebody use the input function which built in.
Not a capital idea.
Because its not the input method its the input function that returns an argument here.
And all I need to do is say okay I care about Mouse motion and nothing else.
So I have a diff event and I think this is a class that is if its a type of thing and what is it.
I always have to look this one up.
Input event mouse motion.
A mouthful.
OK.
If the event is an input event mounce motion difficult to say then you know what let's just have a brain
function and then pass that into it.
And I don't just want to run it.
I want to return it.
So if it's this then give me the result of that.
If we don't we're going to get all kinds of weird bugs.
If it's a mouse motion return event which means we need a mouse function which has an event in it.
Okay.
Two things we need.
We need to rotate left and right and up and down kurupt to axes.
But when we rotate left and right were actually can rotate the player Well we rotate up and down.
I'm going to rotate the camera not the player.
You don't have to do this but as this is a third person game or a first person game and going to the
reason why if I rotate the player up and down the play is going to tilt backwards weirdly and I don't
really want that to happen.
Player got set rotation
and so set rotation I could call this self-taught set rotation and were put separate action.
I only want the player to set rotation on the left white left right axis so let's make a new function
for that and I want to call it look left right.
Go give me a branding function and I'm going to copy that right now and make a new function so I don't
forget I do sometimes do that.
Look left and right.
Let's get a big screen motor because I'm going for now just pass it and then here do a look up down
add new function again.
So you function
and pass what we need is to take this information and figure out a couple of things.
The first thing is to figure out is where were you and where are you now.
Now the good news is input event mouse motion if we look at it actually has.
We can use here relative relative is great mouse position relative to the previous position that position
the last frame that is perfect.
That means we don't have spend time coding.
Here is your last position update your last position next Frank.
It does it for us sublimer do is negative event Y negative because of the way that to in three axes
and intersect.
It's annoying but I get it relative so.
Negative red dot relative dot checks the left and right on the x axis.
And this is the X axis of the mouse not the player right.
This is what gets confusing.
I'm setting 3D rotation by looking at 2D changes.
Now I don't just want to get the mouse position because if the mouse moves by three pixels or an inch
or whatever it is I want the player to move by more than that.
So one day it was on the Divide it by mouse sensitivity sensitive vixie.
We need to define mouse sensitivity as you can see it's ray on my screen.
It's not a built in function so there's going to be an export variable export variable mass sensitivity
is and this to be of value from trial and error.
I found that twelve hundred works well for me but the whole point is is an export variable we can change
that quite quickly now.
I will take this negative event relative x etc etc etc..
And I'm going to copy it and pass it here and instead of the x axis is going to be the y axis y x and
y because these are the axes of the mouse.
Not the player or the camera.
I cannot stress that enough right now.
These will be passed through as an argument so we need something here.
So expect an argument.
I won't call it rot.
I'm not going to call it rotation.
I can call rotation and it'll work just fine.
At least that would effect its forestation but rotation is a built in thing in God and if see rotation
up here it's going to confuse me is it getting that value from it.
I know that's a value.
I've given it.
So on the left right this is nice and simple.
I'm going to return about what value won't return.
Well player.
Now one of the do is get the rotational player.
So where are you right now.
Add in this new value which is vector 3.
If I'm rotating left and right and in 3D the axis rotating on the y axis I provided the set x to zero
y to rot and Z to zero.
One thing I have forgot to do by the way is actually told what the players do that now bar player equals.
In fact they should get on really varshney.
It's just my parents get to parent up.
I could just you get a parent every time the player is easy to read.
Now before I can check if this works or not I need to put the rest in because it is incredibly difficult
to move the mouse only on one axis so let's do a set rotation here.
This one is going to be so very similar as a return get rotation Plus what is going to use and give
That's a 3.
And here I care about the x axis it's me robt 0 0 0.
However I don't want to see the loop around.
I need to clamp this.
So what it would do is instead of return making you very awkward new rotation and set it to this family.
Then say new rotation equals another clamp fact that some clamping the rotation which have spelt wrong.
Yeah.
Do do do do do some climbing that I want to be to look up by a maximum of 90 and look down by a maximum
of 90 degrees so look straight up electric down.
But not all the way back and I want to start looping around the place if I want to be able to clamp
my minimum maximum value like that.
Hi divide a negative two because remember using radians here and it alone is pi divided by two.
And now I can return my new rotation.
Does this work.
And the answer is no.
Cannot convert.
Arguable.
Ah ha.
I do this all the time.
Okay this is good for a float and really I only want to clamp one value.
That's right there's going to be rotation not x.
And obviously if I'm climbing that I have to climb it too.
Otherwise it goes with.
Let's see how that works.
So I will look left and right.
I look up and look down and move around the place.
Now the mouse is currently set to global x y z we are going to fix that later that's a lot more complicated.
But look I have mouse look I can look up look down look left or right and I can see that my feet are
actually a little bit off the ground here aren't they.
But I can fix that later do we have basic mouse movement has all lot going on here and it can be a little
daunting.
But the key is to remember that the mouse has two axes and the player has three.
And be very clear which one is X Y and Z.
Now if you get stuck.
My suggestion is to go into the inspector and play with them right.
So go to the scene and let's say I am going to take the player to rotate it so it's 180 by 30 degrees
on the z axis.
What does that look like that I guess that's my Z axis.
I know I don't want to rotate the play on that axis.
If this was a flight simulator I might.
But let's see what that would look like.
Oh God it's terrible.
Okay.
Come back.
I think that's a great start.
In this video we've looked at hiding and showing the mouse cursor and we've implemented basic mouse
click.
So excellent work and I'll see in the next video.